WBBR radio, and stations like it,
was a way for the small number
of Kingdom proclaimers
to reach millions in populated areas
with the good news.
In an archived interview,
Brother Robert Hatzfeld
explains his privilege to have been part
of that historic method of preaching.
I was born in 1903,
in Pittsburg, in Alleghany.
And it’s been
a very, very interesting lifetime I’ve had
down through these years.
The group that I was in in the neighborhood,
two of us decided we were going to go to sea
as radio operators on ships.
In order to get the license,
we had to be able
to send and receive telegraph messages.
And so the two of us came to New York,
and we went to the RCA School
to learn the telegraph.
When I was going to school then,
and living on Manhattan,
I was going to the meetings.
Was only one meeting at that time
for, the, all the brothers
throughout the whole metropolitan area
—inside and outside the city—
in the rented hall, in the Masonic Temple.
That’s still down here in Lafayette Avenue.
It was a New York Church
of International Bible Students.
And when I told the brothers
that I was figuring on going to sea
as a telegraph operator,
they said: “Well, why go to sea?
We have a radio station.”
So, then,
a little later I came over to Bethel, here,
to see what it was all about,
and a brother,
one of Brother Rutherford’s secretaries,
Brother Hazlet came out and interviewed me.
And I was told
that I should finish the course,
get my license, and then come over.
So that’s how I got to Bethel.
I got my license in December, came to Bethel,
and got involved in any kind
of electrical work, anything at all,
and operating the radio transmitter.
Brother Rutherford had broadcast
in Philadelphia,
from the Opera House, about 1921.
And he and other elders
decided that this was Jehovah’s provision.
Radio was Jehovah’s provision,
to get this truth spread out.
There was no way
for a couple hundred Witnesses to witness
to the millions and millions of people
in the metropolitan area;
let alone the world.
So they decided
that since you couldn’t go out
and buy a radio station,
we’ll build one.
And they got together
and they bought the wilderness
on Staten Island.
That needed to be cleaned out
—all the brush cleaned out, land leveled off.
And we’re gonna build a radio station.
So they built a big house, really big house.
That proved to be very useful
down through the years.
So they built another smaller building
alongside of the house.
They had the radio transmitter
in one end of it,
and then the studio in the same building.
In the spring of 1924,
the first program was put on.
The programs were made up by using
all of the things that the Society published
—were used in some kind of a program.
We had all kinds of programs.
We had to put on some music,
and we had real good music.
And we had a seven-piece orchestra
that would play
on an everyday program.
And then we had the augmented orchestra,
brothers coming out from Bethel
and playing over the weekend.
We had bought a used transmitter,
five hundred watts,
to get started.
And that was enough power,
with that single wire antenna,
that in the early days
that was heard all over
—over a very, very large area
because there wasn’t many stations,
and there wasn’t
much electrical interference.
But then, this first transmitter
was replaced in 1927
by a brand new Western Electric transmitter,
of a thousand watts.
That made a considerable increase
in our territory that we were covering.
With very little interference, why then,
people would sit down with earphones
and try to receive distant programs,
and pay attention.
When they heard something good,
that they were interested in,
they really paid attention
because there wasn’t
a whole lot of other things
to distract them and take them away from it.
That was an evening’s entertainment
—to sit down and listen to the radio.
The commercial programs, of course, were,
some of them were interesting,
but the Bible message appealed
to a lot of people in those days.
This message was a life-giving message
that we had.
Was a matter of life and death, really.
And we know that without Jehovah’s help,
why nothing would’ve happened.
So it worked out very well,
right from the beginning,
that we were broadcasting
the message of the Kingdom over the radio.
Brother Hatzfeld served at Bethel
for almost 75 years
before finishing his earthly course in 2001,
at the age of 98.